HU Extension            Assignment 03       E-63 Big Data Analytics	                 
Handed out: 02/14/2015                                        Due by 11:30PM on Friday, 02/20/2015  
Those of you who work with Windows operating system should download Cygwin. A very comprehensive deck with detail by detail instruction on how to install Cygwin is attached, courtesy of Diane Howdy. As you follow installation instructions please make sure that you include OpenSSH tools. Cygwin download presents you with a list of Unix (Linux) packages. Under Net packages, look for openssh and then toggle the selection to install. OpenSSH will provide you with both SSH and SCP (secure copy) tools. Cygwin creates a Linux environment on your PC. Mac and Linux users have all those tools already installed. 
Please register for the Free Tier of Amazon AWS. Please use Micro Instances only. As soon as you are done with any of your homework tasks, stop your instance and terminate it. In that way you will accumulate no or only minimal expenses.

You who have taken Cloud Computing course, please do the first two problems, though they are trivial. 

Problem 1. Create an S3 bucket. Enable versioning. Upload a single text document. A few minutes later modify the document a tiny bit. Upload modified document. Demonstrate that you can retrieve both versions of the document. Give permission to everyone to see your bucket. Upload an image. Demonstrate that you can observe that image in your browser by providing a proper URL. 

Problem 2. In AWS Management Console, please navigate to EC2 Service (Dashboard). In the top right corner, next to your name, please select the region that is closest to you. That is not all that essential for this simple problem but is a good practice. Launch a Linux instance. If you insist and you know what you are doing, you are welcome to launch a Window’s instance as well. Otherwise, please launch Amazon Linux AMI 2013.09.2 - ami-bba18dd2 (64-bit) / ami-d7a18dbe (32-bit). Demonstrate that you can use ssh protocol to connect to your instance. Demonstrate that you can use scp (secure copy protocol) to copy files from your local machine to the instance in the Cloud as well as copy a file from the instance in the Cloud to your local machine. Use Linux command man scp to read Linux manual on command scp.

Problem 3. Use any language of your choice to implement a map() function, a reduce() function, a combiner() function and a master program for a simple word count problem as described on slides. Take a single page of a text, treat imaginary line numbers (1,2,3..50) as the initial keys and the content of the corresponding lines as the values. Use the “master” program  to call map() function, combiner() and then reduce() functions. Demonstrate that you are getting proper word counts. Use Linux (Unix) egrep and wc commands to verify results of your program. Run your code on your local machine, not on a Hadoop cluster.

Problem 4. Lecture notes walk you through a Hadoop demo job using a scripting language called Pig. As a way of familiarizing yourself with AWS console, please follow the steps in the notes and run the demo script. When done, download results stored in your S3 buckets to your local machine and examine results file. Could you guess what analysis was performed and what those results represent? We do not expect you to be very, very precise in your descriptions.

Package your submission into an archive called E63_LastNameFirstNameHW03.zip. Naming your file properly is important. We download many files and if they are all named Assignment01.zip it becomes hard not to overwrite and lose them. Please do not use archiving tools like RAR or TAR which do not produce ZIP files. 
If you are using a Mac, please make sure that your files are READABLE to users of Windows. You are welcome to save your work as a PDF file, but please, always submit a Word document, as well. You can use Open source imitations of Microsoft Office as well. 
Upload your ZIP archive to the course web site. Every assignment has its drop box. If you miss the deadline, please submit your solution into the 00_AnyHW_WayLate  Drop Box. Those assignments will be graded as well. We will chop 10% of your grade for every day you are late. Your grade for every assignment will be entered as a comment next to your submission.  
